README.md, before:

# Introduction

This specification aims to allow web applications to connect with and
communicate to each other over local-area transport protocols. In particular,
this specification aims to bring the web's client/server application model to
inter-device communication. The web's application architecture enables an
application running on a server to dynamically and incrementally send
application state and logic to an intermittently connected client. This model
enables a powerful multi-homed application architecture.

In contrast to this power, the web architecture is also constrained.  A server
must reside on a TCP-based network and must have an IP address. A client can
only identify a server via a URL it is given. Only clients may initiate
connections to servers; servers cannot identify and initiate connections to
clients. A client/server session must be established over a TCP socket and no
other underlying transport protocol may be used.

This specification aims to lift the above restrictions and allow the web's
application architecture to work between devices which are proximally located.
With FlyWeb, both web clients and servers may advertise themselves for
local-area consumption over local-area transport protocols such as Bluetooth,
Wi-Fi Direct or over a wired/wireless LAN. Clients may discover and connect to
servers and vice-versa, servers may discover and connect to locally available
web clients.

In addition, FlyWeb aims to introduce a web API to allow web pages to host a
*server endpoint*. This mechanism is designed as a way to enable cross-device
communication using no additional infrastructure aside from web browsers.

# Conformance

TODO

# Dependencies

TODO

# Terminology

This web API is structured around a process for establishing a web session
between two computational endpoints where one endpoint serves as a web client
and the other as a web server.

### Client endpoint

A *client endpoint* is a device or program on that device which plays the role
of a web client in a FlyWeb session. This endpoint is able to receive and
execute web applications written using web technologies such as HTML, JavaScript
and CSS. The canonical *client endpoint* is a web browser.

### Server endpoint

A *server endpoint* is a device or program on that device which plays the role
of a web server in a FlyWeb session. This endpoint is able to serve web
applications using the HTTP protocol.

To establish a FlyWeb session, the *client endpoint* performs a local-area
discovery (at the direction of the user) over supported underlying transports
(e.g. mDNS over Wi-Fi). The discovery reveals the presence of any local-area
*server endpoints* which are presented to the user. The user then selects
a *server endpoint* to connect to, at which point the client performs whatever
transport-specific steps are required to set up a web session with the server.
It then navigates to a page on the server which establishes an application
session between the user on the *client endpoint* and the service exposed by
the *server endpoint*.

# Security and privacy considerations

The web API defined in this specification can be used to find and connect to
devices and services near the user. This specification uses two mechanisms
to ensure that services are not inadvertently exposed to potentially
malicious code executing on web pages.

Firstly, a *server endpoint* advertises its services with explicit metadata
that indicates its willingness to serve as a FlyWeb *server endpoint*. Other
non-FlyWeb services which are advertised using similar mechanisms cannot thus
be mistaken for a FlyWeb service.

Secondly, an endpoint may force a pairing protocol at the point of session
establishment. This protocol may take various forms including entering a
secret code, scanning a QR code displayed on a screen, or a synchronized
button press. These pairing protocols are similar to Bluetooth device pairing
protocols and are already familiar to users.

# Advertising a server

FlyWeb allows web pages to expose a *server endpoint* using a web API:

```language-webidl
interface FlyWebPublishingAPI {
  Promise<FlyWebPublishedServer> publishServer(DOMString name,
                                               FlyWebPublishOptions options);
};

dictionary FlyWebPublishOptions {
  DOMString? uiUrl = null; // URL to user interface. Can be different server. Makes
                           // endpoint show up in browser's "local services" UI.
                           // If relative, resolves against the root of the server.
};
```

*Do we need something to hide server from discovery?*

*Rather than have a separate `uiUrl` property, we could make discoverable
servers use a specific category and then indicate the url through a property
in `data`. This might depend on mDNS capabilities since we want it to be
efficient to query for all servers with a user UI.*

# Methods

### navigator.publishServer

```
promise = navigator.publishServer(name, {...options...});
```

Immediately returns a new `Promise` object. The user agent asynchronously
begins the process of establishing a published service under the given
name. The user agent SHOULD prompt the user before advertising a service
from a web page allowing the user to prevent the page from advertising
services to nearby clients.

If the user declined the publishing or an error occurs, the `Promise`
is rejected.

If the publishing is successful, the `Promise` is resolved with a
`FlyWebPublishedServer` object:

```language-webidl
interface FlyWebPublishedServer : EventTarget {
  readonly attribute DOMString name;
  readonly attribute DOMString? uiUrl;

  void close();

  attribute EventHandler onclose;
  attribute EventHandler onfetch;
  attribute EventHandler onwebsocket;
};
```

# Attributes

### publishedServer.name

The display name the server is published under.

### publishedServer.uiUrl

The URL to the published server that clients should connect to.

# Events

### onclose

Called when the published server is closed, for example because the
`close()` method is called on the `FlyWebPublishedServer` object.

### onfetch

Called when a client of the published server sends an HTTP request.
The event type is 'FlyWebFetchEvent':

```language-webidl
interface FlyWebFetchEvent : Event {
  [SameObject] readonly attribute Request request;

  [Throws]
  void respondWith(Promise<Response> r);
};
```

The `request` attribute holds a DOM `Request` object describing the
details of the HTTP request.

The `respondWith` method on the event can accept a `Promise` for
resolving a `Response` object to service the HTTP request.

### onwebsocket

Called when a client of the published server establishes a new WebSocket
connection request. The event type is 'FlyWebWebSocketEvent':

```language-webidl
interface FlyWebWebSocketEvent : Event {
  [SameObject] readonly attribute Request request;

  [Throws]
  WebSocket accept(optional DOMString protocol);

  [Throws]
  void respondWith(Promise<Response> r);
};
```

The `request` attribute holds a DOM `Request` object describing the
details of the WebSocket request.

The `accept` method on the event can be used to accept the WebSocket
request. It immediately returns a WebSocket instance which can be used
to communicate with the client.

The `respondWith` method on the event can accept a `Promise` for
resolving a `Response` object to service the WebSocket request.

Commit message:

Add refs to Fetch, WebSocket, and Promise specs

README.md, after:

# Introduction

This specification aims to allow web applications to connect with and
communicate to each other over local-area transport protocols. In particular,
this specification aims to bring the web's client/server application model to
inter-device communication. The web's application architecture enables an
application running on a server to dynamically and incrementally send
application state and logic to an intermittently connected client. This model
enables a powerful multi-homed application architecture.

In contrast to this power, the web architecture is also constrained.  A server
must reside on a TCP-based network and must have an IP address. A client can
only identify a server via a URL it is given. Only clients may initiate
connections to servers; servers cannot identify and initiate connections to
clients. A client/server session must be established over a TCP socket and no
other underlying transport protocol may be used.

This specification aims to lift the above restrictions and allow the web's
application architecture to work between devices which are proximally located.
With FlyWeb, both web clients and servers may advertise themselves for
local-area consumption over local-area transport protocols such as Bluetooth,
Wi-Fi Direct or over a wired/wireless LAN. Clients may discover and connect to
servers and vice-versa, servers may discover and connect to locally available
web clients.

In addition, FlyWeb aims to introduce a web API to allow web pages to host a
*server endpoint*. This mechanism is designed as a way to enable cross-device
communication using no additional infrastructure aside from web browsers.

# Conformance

TODO

# Dependencies

FlyWeb uses [`Promise`][Promise reference] objects as defined in the [ES6
specification][Promise specification].

FlyWeb's API for hosting a server endpoint from a webpage uses the classes
defined in the [Fetch Standard] and the [WebSocket specification] to represent
both typical HTTP traffic [to][Fetch API request] and [from][Fetch API response]
the page-hosted server as well as [bidirectional, persistent connections][WebSocket interface].

# Terminology

This web API is structured around a process for establishing a web session
between two computational endpoints where one endpoint serves as a web client
and the other as a web server.

### Client endpoint

A *client endpoint* is a device or program on that device which plays the role
of a web client in a FlyWeb session. This endpoint is able to receive and
execute web applications written using web technologies such as HTML, JavaScript
and CSS. The canonical *client endpoint* is a web browser.

### Server endpoint

A *server endpoint* is a device or program on that device which plays the role
of a web server in a FlyWeb session. This endpoint is able to serve web
applications using the HTTP protocol.

To establish a FlyWeb session, the *client endpoint* performs a local-area
discovery (at the direction of the user) over supported underlying transports
(e.g. mDNS over Wi-Fi). The discovery reveals the presence of any local-area
*server endpoints* which are presented to the user. The user then selects
a *server endpoint* to connect to, at which point the client performs whatever
transport-specific steps are required to set up a web session with the server.
It then navigates to a page on the server which establishes an application
session between the user on the *client endpoint* and the service exposed by
the *server endpoint*.

# Security and privacy considerations

The web API defined in this specification can be used to find and connect to
devices and services near the user. This specification uses two mechanisms
to ensure that services are not inadvertently exposed to potentially
malicious code executing on web pages.

Firstly, a *server endpoint* advertises its services with explicit metadata
that indicates its willingness to serve as a FlyWeb *server endpoint*. Other
non-FlyWeb services which are advertised using similar mechanisms cannot thus
be mistaken for a FlyWeb service.

Secondly, an endpoint may force a pairing protocol at the point of session
establishment. This protocol may take various forms including entering a
secret code, scanning a QR code displayed on a screen, or a synchronized
button press. These pairing protocols are similar to Bluetooth device pairing
protocols and are already familiar to users.

# Advertising a server

FlyWeb allows web pages to expose a *server endpoint* using a web API:

```language-webidl
interface FlyWebPublishingAPI {
  Promise<FlyWebPublishedServer> publishServer(DOMString name,
                                               FlyWebPublishOptions options);
};

dictionary FlyWebPublishOptions {
  DOMString? uiUrl = null; // URL to user interface. Can be different server. Makes
                           // endpoint show up in browser's "local services" UI.
                           // If relative, resolves against the root of the server.
};
```

*Do we need something to hide server from discovery?*

*Rather than have a separate `uiUrl` property, we could make discoverable
servers use a specific category and then indicate the url through a property
in `data`. This might depend on mDNS capabilities since we want it to be
efficient to query for all servers with a user UI.*

# Methods

### navigator.publishServer

```
promise = navigator.publishServer(name, {...options...});
```

Immediately returns a new `Promise` object. The user agent asynchronously
begins the process of establishing a published service under the given
name. The user agent SHOULD prompt the user before advertising a service
from a web page allowing the user to prevent the page from advertising
services to nearby clients.

If the user declined the publishing or an error occurs, the `Promise`
is rejected.

If the publishing is successful, the `Promise` is resolved with a
`FlyWebPublishedServer` object:

```language-webidl
interface FlyWebPublishedServer : EventTarget {
  readonly attribute DOMString name;
  readonly attribute DOMString? uiUrl;

  void close();

  attribute EventHandler onclose;
  attribute EventHandler onfetch;
  attribute EventHandler onwebsocket;
};
```

# Attributes

### publishedServer.name

The display name the server is published under.

### publishedServer.uiUrl

The URL to the published server that clients should connect to.

# Events

### onclose

Called when the published server is closed, for example because the
`close()` method is called on the `FlyWebPublishedServer` object.

### onfetch

Called when a client of the published server sends an HTTP request.
The event type is 'FlyWebFetchEvent':

```language-webidl
interface FlyWebFetchEvent : Event {
  [SameObject] readonly attribute Request request;

  [Throws]
  void respondWith(Promise<Response> r);
};
```

The `request` attribute holds a DOM [`Request`][Fetch API request] object
describing the details of the HTTP request.

The `respondWith` method on the event can accept a `Promise` for
resolving a [`Response`][Fetch API response] object to service the HTTP request.

### onwebsocket

Called when a client of the published server establishes a new WebSocket
connection request. The event type is 'FlyWebWebSocketEvent':

```language-webidl
interface FlyWebWebSocketEvent : Event {
  [SameObject] readonly attribute Request request;

  [Throws]
  WebSocket accept(optional DOMString protocol);

  [Throws]
  void respondWith(Promise<Response> r);
};
```

The `request` attribute holds a DOM [`Request`][Fetch API Request] object describing the
details of the WebSocket request.

The `accept` method on the event can be used to accept the WebSocket
request. It immediately returns a [`WebSocket`][WebSocket interface] instance which can be used
to communicate with the client.

The `respondWith` method on the event can accept a `Promise` for
resolving a [`Response`][Fetch API Response] object to service the WebSocket request.


[Fetch Standard]: https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/
[Fetch API request]: https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#request-class
[Fetch API response]: https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#response-class
[WebSocket specification]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/comms.html#network
[WebSocket interface]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/comms.html#the-websocket-interface
[Promise specification]: http://www.ecma-international.org/ecma-262/6.0/#sec-promise-objects
[Promise reference]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise
